Coredump generation HOWTO for Linux and MacOS Wazuh agents (#7281)
wazuh/wazuh-documentation: source/development/coredump.rst

Author: okay, I had deleted them so that they are not copied along with the command

Reviewer: We use our own-copy-to-clipboard function that dismisses the prompt symbol. Check for example https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/quickstart.html

.. Copyright (C) 2024, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
   :description: This section contains instructions to configure and collect core dumps for analysis.

Configuring core dump generation
================================

A *core dump* or *crash dump* is a snapshot of a process's memory taken when a serious or unhandled error occurs. The operating system on a monitored endpoint can automatically generate core dumps. These dumps are valuable for diagnosing hanging processes. Alongside environment information such as the operating system version, they can offer insights into the cause of a crash.

Linux endpoints
---------------

In Linux version 2.41 and later, a template defines the location and name of the generated `core dump files <https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/core.5.html>`__. Earlier versions generate the core dump files next to the location of the file that caused the error.

Using `systemd`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Systemd allows centralized management and configuration of core dumps across your system. To set up core dump generation with systemd, use the built-in features as follows.

#. Check that the Systemd core dump unit socket is active.

>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         # systemctl status systemd-coredump*
> 
>     .. code-block:: none                                                                                                                                                                                            
>         :class: output                            
>         :emphasize-lines: 3
> 
>         ● systemd-coredump.socket - Process Core Dump Socket
>              Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/systemd-coredump.socket; static)
>              Active: active (listening) ...
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console

      # systemctl status systemd-coredump*

   .. code-block:: none
      :class: output
      :emphasize-lines: 3

      ● systemd-coredump.socket - Process Core Dump Socket
           Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/systemd-coredump.socket; static)
           Active: active (listening) ...
```

#. Edit the Systemd ``/etc/systemd/coredump.conf`` file.

    .. code-block:: console

        # systemctl edit systemd-coredump

#. Add the following lines in the editor that opens to enable core dump collection and store core dumps externally. To disable core dump generation you must set ``Storage=none``.

    .. code-block:: console

        [Coredump]
        Storage=external

#. **Recommended** – Set a size limit for core dump files. For example, 2 GB.

    .. code-block:: console

        ProcessSizeMax=2G

#. Restart the ``systemd-coredump`` service to apply the changes.

    .. code-block:: console

        # systemctl restart systemd-coredump

#. Check the status of the systemd-coredump service to ensure it is running without errors.

    .. code-block:: console

        # systemctl status systemd-coredump

#. To check the generated core dump files, take a look at the default ``/var/lib/systemd/coredump/`` directory. To find the filename pattern for these files, run the following command.

>       .. code-block:: console
> 
>       # cat /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern
> 
>       .. code-block:: none
>         :class: output                            
> 
>         │|/lib/systemd/systemd-coredump %P %u %g %s %t

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern

   .. code-block:: none
      :class: output

      │|/lib/systemd/systemd-coredump %P %u %g %s %t
```

Manual configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Setting up core dump generation without using systemd involves configuring the operating system core dump settings manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up core dump generation without using systemd involves configuring the operating system core dump settings manually. Follow these steps to set up core dump generation manually.
```

> #. Set the core dump size limit to unlimited for complete debugging information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Set the core dump size limit to ``unlimited`` to enable core dump generation with complete debugging information. To disable it, set it to zero by running ``ulimit -c 0``.
```

    .. code-block:: console

        # ulimit -c unlimited

> #. Set the core dump file location and pattern to enable core dump generation. For example, to set the  the ``/var/core/`` directory and a filename pattern ``core.%e.%p``, where `%e` represents the executable name and `%p` represents the process ID, run the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Set the core dump file location and pattern. For example, to set the  the ``/var/core/`` directory and the filename pattern ``core.%e.%p``, where ``%e`` represents the executable name and ``%p`` represents the process ID, run the following command.
```

    .. code-block:: console

        # echo "/var/core/core.%e.%p" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern

> #. **Automate Configuration (Optional)**:
>     To preserve these changes across reboots, add the ``ulimit`` command and ``echo`` command setting ``core_pattern`` to a startup script or system initialization script (e.g., ``/etc/rc.local``).
> 
>     By following these steps, you can set up core dump generation manually without relying on systemd.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To discard core dumps, you can run ``echo "/dev/null" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern``.

   .. note::

      Consider restarting relevant processes to ensure that the changes take effect.
```

> To disable core dump generation  you can directly adjust system-wide settings and configurations. Here's how you can do it:
> 
> #. **Identify the Target Directory for Core Dumps**:
>     If core dumps are currently being generated, identify the directory where they are stored. By default, core dumps may be stored in the current working directory or in the directory specified by the ``core_pattern`` sysctl parameter.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #. **Disable Core Dump Generation**:
>     To disable core dump generation, set the core dump size limit to zero using the ``ulimit`` command:
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         # ulimit -c 0
> 
> #. **Optional: Configure Core Dump Storage Location**:
>     If core dumps were previously being stored, you may want to configure the ``core_pattern`` sysctl parameter to prevent any future core dumps from being generated. For example, you can set it to ``/dev/null`` to discard core dumps:
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         # echo "/dev/null" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern
> 
> #. **Restart Processes if Necessary**:
>     If you've changed the ``core_pattern`` parameter, consider restarting relevant processes to ensure that the changes take effect.
> 
> By following these steps, you can disable core dump generation without relying on systemd. This approach directly modifies system-wide settings to prevent core dumps from being generated.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **Recommended** – To preserve these changes across reboots, add the ``ulimit`` and ``echo`` commands above to a startup or system initialization script such as ``/etc/rc.local``.

```

MacOS endpoints
---------------
On macOS, most applications have core dump generation disabled by default. However, you can enable it using the ``ulimit`` command. To enable core dump generation on macOS follow these steps.

#. Check the current core dump size limit using the ``ulimit`` command.

    .. code-block:: console

        # ulimit -c

#. **Enable Core Dump Generation**:
    To enable core dump generation, set the core dump size limit to a non-zero value using the ``ulimit`` command. For example, to set the limit to unlimited:

    .. code-block:: console

        # ulimit -c unlimited

#. **Set Core Dump Generation path**:

    .. code-block:: console

        # sysctl -w kern.corefile=/cores/core.%P

By following these steps, you can enable core dump generation on macOS. Keep in mind that enabling core dump generation may consume additional disk space, so use it judiciously. Additionally, core dump generation may not be supported or may behave differently for all processes on macOS.

> 
> To disable coredump generation, you can ensure that core dumps are not generated by setting the core dump size limit to zero. Here's how you can disable core dump generation on macOS:
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         # ulimit -c 0
> 
> By setting the core dump size limit to zero, you ensure that core dumps are not generated for any processes on macOS.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    If core dumps are currently being generated, identify the directory where they are stored. By default, core dumps may be stored in the current working directory or in the directory specified by the ``core_pattern`` sysctl parameter.

#. **Disable Core Dump Generation**:
    To disable core dump generation, set the core dump size limit to zero using the ``ulimit`` command:

    .. code-block:: console

        # ulimit -c 0

#. **Optional: Configure Core Dump Storage Location**:
    If core dumps were previously being stored, you may want to configure the ``core_pattern`` sysctl parameter to prevent any future core dumps from being generated. For example, you can set it to ``/dev/null`` to discard core dumps:

    .. code-block:: console

        # echo "/dev/null" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern

#. **Restart Processes if Necessary**:
    If you've changed the ``core_pattern`` parameter, consider restarting relevant processes to ensure that the changes take effect.

By following these steps, you can disable core dump generation without relying on systemd. This approach directly modifies system-wide settings to prevent core dumps from being generated.

> MacOS agent's OS
> ----------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
macOS endpoints
---------------

```

> On macOS, core dump generation is disabled by default for most applications. However, you can enable core dump generation for specific processes using the ``ulimit`` command. Here's how you can enable core dump generation on macOS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On macOS, most applications have core dump generation disabled by default. However, you can enable it for specific processes using the ``ulimit`` command. To enable core dump generation on macOS follow these steps.
```

> #. **Check Current Core Dump Configuration**:
>     Before enabling core dump generation, check the current core dump size limit using the ``ulimit`` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Check the current core dump size limit using the ``ulimit`` command.
```

    .. code-block:: console

        # ulimit -c
        # sysctl kern.corefile

#. **Identify the Target Directory for Core Dumps**:
    On macOS, core dump files are typically stored in the current working directory of the process that crashes.

> 

Reviewer: Why running the `sysctl kern.corefile` command in the previous step? And why a step to identify a target directory for core dumps if we don't provide a command or a way to achieve it?

Reviewer: See `sysctl -w kern.corefile=/cores/core.%P` comment below

Author: The first `sysctl kern.corefile` command shows the current setting, the second `sysctl`command sets it.

Then I will eliminate this previous control, in the end the setting is better and safer

> #. **Enable Core Dump Generation**:
>     To enable core dump generation for a specific process, set the core dump size limit to a non-zero value using the ``ulimit`` command. For example, to set the limit to unlimited:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Set the core dump size limit to ``unlimited``, or a non-zero value, to enable core dump generation for a specific process.
```

Reviewer: What specific process? Does it mean any process run in the terminal after it? Can we clarify what the "specific process" means here?

Reviewer: What about moving the disabling core dump generation here so we don't have a new set of steps to disable it. For example by adding `Set ``0`` to disable it.`

Author: I'll remove the references to `specific process`

    .. code-block:: console

        # ulimit -c unlimited

>         # sysctl -w kern.corefile=/cores/core.%P

Reviewer: This command seems to be setting a custom filepath for dumping crash data. Is it? In such a case, we could split and create a specific step for it.

By following these steps, you can enable core dump generation for specific processes on macOS. Keep in mind that enabling core dump generation may consume additional disk space, so use it judiciously. Additionally, core dump generation may not be supported or may behave differently for all processes on macOS.

To disable coredump generation, you can ensure that core dumps are not generated by setting the core dump size limit to zero. Here's how you can disable core dump generation on macOS:

    .. code-block:: console

        # ulimit -c 0

> By setting the core dump size limit to zero, you ensure that core dumps are not generated for any processes on macOS. Keep in mind that this setting affects the entire system and may impact troubleshooting capabilities in case of application crashes.

Reviewer: Is recommending to set the limit to 0 a good recommendation then? It seems something to avoid in my view from reading this. Is `ulimit -c` a general command or specific to certain processes?

Author: The `ulimit` (user limit) command is used to configure some other limits, in the case of `coredump` (-c) it is correct to set the limit to 0 (disable it).
I'll delete the last comment to avoid confusion.

Linux endpoints
---------------

In Linux version 2.41 and later, a template defines the location and name of the generated `core dump files <https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/core.5.html>`__. Earlier versions generate the core dump files next to the location of the file that caused the error.

Using `systemd`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Systemd allows centralized management and configuration of core dumps across your system. To set up core dump generation with systemd, use the built-in features as follows.

#. Check that the Systemd core dump unit socket is active.

    .. code-block:: console

        # systemctl status systemd-coredump*

    .. code-block:: none                                                                                                                                                                                            
        :class: output                            
        :emphasize-lines: 3

        ● systemd-coredump.socket - Process Core Dump Socket
             Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/systemd-coredump.socket; static)
             Active: active (listening) ...

> #. **Identify Target Directory for Core Dumps**:
>     Take a look the directory where core dump files will be generated. By default, systemd stores core dump files in ``/var/lib/systemd/coredump/``.
> 
>     Below is how to consult the set configuration, generally ``systemd`` uses piping to process the data.
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         # cat /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern
> 
>     .. code-block:: none                                                                                                                                                                                            
>         :class: output                            
> 
>         │|/lib/systemd/systemd-coredump %P %u %g %s %t                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#. Edit the Systemd ``/etc/systemd/coredump.conf`` file.

    .. code-block:: console

        # systemctl edit systemd-coredump

#. Add the following lines in the editor that opens to enable core dump collection and store core dumps externally. To disable core dump generation you must set ``Storage=none``.

    .. code-block:: console

        [Coredump]
        Storage=external

#. **Recommended** – Set a size limit for core dump files. For example, 2 GB.

    .. code-block:: console

        ProcessSizeMax=2G

#. Restart the ``systemd-coredump`` service to apply the changes.

    .. code-block:: console

        # systemctl restart systemd-coredump

#. Check the status of the systemd-coredump service to ensure it is running without errors.

    .. code-block:: console

        # systemctl status systemd-coredump

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#. To check the generated core dump files, take a look at the default ``/var/lib/systemd/coredump/`` directory. To find the filename pattern for these files, run the following command.

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern

   .. code-block:: none
      :class: output                            

      │|/lib/systemd/systemd-coredump %P %u %g %s %t

```

Manual configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Setting up core dump generation without using systemd involves configuring the operating system core dump settings manually.

> #. **Set the Core Dump Size Limit**:
>     Set the core dump size limit to unlimited:
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         # ulimit -c unlimited
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Set the core dump size limit to unlimited for complete debugging information.

   .. code-block:: console

      # ulimit -c unlimited

```

> #. **Enable Core Dump Generation**:
>     Enable core dump generation by setting the ``core_pattern`` sysctl parameter to specify the core dump file pattern and location. For example, to set the core dump file pattern to ``/var/core/core.%e.%p`` (where `%e` represents the executable name and `%p` represents the process ID):
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         # echo "/var/core/core.%e.%p" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Set the core dump file location and pattern to enable core dump generation. For example, to set the  the ``/var/core/`` directory and a filename pattern ``core.%e.%p``, where `%e` represents the executable name and `%p` represents the process ID, run the following command.

   .. code-block:: console

      # echo "/var/core/core.%e.%p" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern
```

#. **Identify the Target Directory for Core Dumps**:
    Choose a directory where core dump files will be generated. This directory should have sufficient disk space and appropriate permissions for the process generating core dumps to write to it.

#. **Set the Core Dump Size Limit**:
    If the current core dump size limit is insufficient, increase it using the ``ulimit`` command. For example, to set the core dump size limit to unlimited:

    .. code-block:: console

        ulimit -c unlimited

#. **Enable Core Dump Generation**:
    Enable core dump generation by setting the ``core_pattern`` sysctl parameter to specify the core dump file pattern and location. For example, to set the core dump file pattern to ``/var/core/core.%e.%p`` (where `%e` represents the executable name and `%p` represents the process ID):

    .. code-block:: console

        echo "/var/core/core.%e.%p" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern

#. **Automate Configuration (Optional)**:
    To preserve these changes across reboots, add the ``ulimit`` command and ``echo`` command setting ``core_pattern`` to a startup script or system initialization script (e.g., ``/etc/rc.local``).

>     By following these steps, you can set up core dump generation manually without relying on systemd. However, keep in mind that the process may vary slightly depending on the Linux distribution and version you are using.

Author: These steps should work without problems using the main distributions, for example Debian, RedHat and their derivatives.
But if you prefer, we could remove this last comment?

.. Copyright (C) 2024, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: This section contains instructions to configure and collect coredumps for furture analisys

.. _coredumps:

HowTo configure Wazuh agent's OS to generate `coredumps`
========================================================

> This section contains instructions to customize the diferent OS where Wazuh agent are installed.

Reviewer 2: Singular - plural issues.
The plural of "OS" (operating system) can be either "OSes" or "OSs". Both are grammatically correct.
Subject/verb mismatch: "wazuh agents are installed" or "the wazuh agent is installed"

Author: It is not plural, it is possessive, it is referring to the SO, not the agent.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I saw that and removed the comment, my mistake. The other one remains.

Introduction
------------

> A **core dump** a.k.a **crash-dump** is a snapshot of the memory of a running process. The S.O. where the Wazuh agent resides, it can automatically create a core dump when a serious or unhandled error occurs. Sometimes a crash dump is useful for diagnosing a process that appears to be hanging; The memory dump may reveal information about the cause of the crash.

Reviewer 2: Spanish: The OS where the Wazuh...
Remove double subject: [It] can automatically

Author: done

Using `ulimit`, without `systemd`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Setting up core dump generation without using systemd involves configuring the operating system's core dump settings manually. Here's how you can do it on Linux systems:

1. **Identify the Target Directory for Core Dumps**:
    Choose a directory where core dump files will be generated. This directory should have sufficient disk space and appropriate permissions for the process generating core dumps to write to it.

2. **Set the Core Dump Size Limit**:
    If the current core dump size limit is insufficient, increase it using the ``ulimit`` command. For example, to set the core dump size limit to unlimited:

.. code-block:: console

    ulimit -c unlimited
..

3. **Enable Core Dump Generation**:
    Enable core dump generation by setting the ``core_pattern`` sysctl parameter to specify the core dump file pattern and location. For example, to set the core dump file pattern to ``/var/core/core.%e.%p`` (where `%e` represents the executable name and `%p` represents the process ID):

.. code-block:: console

    echo "/var/core/core.%e.%p" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern
..

4. **Automate Configuration (Optional)**:

>     To persist these changes across reboots, add the ``ulimit`` command and ``echo`` command setting ``core_pattern`` to a startup script or system initialization script (e.g., ``/etc/rc.local``).

Reviewer 2: The verb persist is intransitive or requieres a preposition (persist in, persist with). "To preserve these changes" might be a good alternative

Author: done

#. **Edit systemd-coredump Configuration**:
    Open the systemd-coredump configuration file for editing:

    .. code-block:: console

        systemctl edit systemd-coredump

#. **Add Configuration to Disable Core Dumps**:
    Add the following lines to the editor that opens:

    .. code-block:: console

        [Coredump]
        Storage=none

    This configuration sets the ``Storage`` option to ``none``, effectively disabling core dump storage.

#. **Restart systemd-coredump Service**:
    After making changes to the configuration, restart the systemd-coredump service for the changes to take effect:

    .. code-block:: console

        systemctl restart systemd-coredump

#. **Verify Configuration**:
    Check the status of the systemd-coredump service to ensure it is running without errors:

    .. code-block:: console

        systemctl status systemd-coredump

Once you've completed these steps, core dump generation will be disabled on your system. Any attempts to generate core dumps will not result in files being stored.

Manual configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Setting up core dump generation without using systemd involves configuring the operating system's core dump settings manually. Here's how you can do it on Linux systems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up core dump generation without using systemd involves configuring the operating system core dump settings manually.
```

> #. **Identify the Target Directory for Core Dumps**:

Reviewer: Add an example. Do we mean `/var/core/` as an example? We could move this step down before enabling core dump generation since it seems to be related.

Author: This comment is redundant, the configuration is explained below.
the point will be removed

    Choose a directory where core dump files will be generated. This directory should have sufficient disk space and appropriate permissions for the process generating core dumps to write to it.

#. **Set the Core Dump Size Limit**:

>     If the current core dump size limit is insufficient, increase it using the ``ulimit`` command. For example, to set the core dump size limit to unlimited:

Reviewer: How does the user know whether the size limit is enough? Or do we mean we recommend to set it to unlimited always?

Author: There is no precise answer for this, since the size of the core will depend on several factors, such as the size of the process, the point where the error occurs, etc.
The use of unlimited is common.

Reviewer: We may turn this step to "use `unlimited`" as our recommendation then, regardless whether the current size limit of the user is enough.

Author: I only added this recommendation because I have noticed it in some publications consulted, but as has already been said, the use of unlimited is common, could we remove this warning if you prefer?

Reviewer: Rather, I would remove "if the limit is insufficient" and would recommend to set the limit to unlimited, then. For example: "Set the core dump size limit to unlimited".

.. Copyright (C) 2024, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
   :description: This section contains instructions to configure and collect core dumps for analysis.

Configuring core dump generation
================================

A *core dump* or *crash dump* is a snapshot of a process's memory taken when a serious or unhandled error occurs. The operating system on a monitored endpoint can automatically generate core dumps. These dumps are valuable for diagnosing hanging processes. Alongside environment information such as the operating system version, they can offer insights into the cause of a crash.

Linux endpoints
---------------

In Linux version 2.41 and later, a template defines the location and name of the generated `core dump files <https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/core.5.html>`__. Earlier versions generated the core dump files next to the location of the file that caused the error.

Using `systemd`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To set up core dump generation using systemd, you can utilize systemd's built-in features for managing core dumps. Here's a step-by-step guide:

> #. **Check Core Dump Configuration**:
>     First, verify the current core dump configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Check that the Systemd core dump unit socket is active.
```

    .. code-block:: console

        systemctl status systemd-coredump*

    .. code-block:: none                                                                                                                                                                                            
        :class: output                            

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :emphasize-lines: 3

```

        ● systemd-coredump.socket - Process Core Dump Socket
             Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/systemd-coredump.socket; static)
             Active: active (listening) ...

#. **Identify Target Directory for Core Dumps**:

>     Choose a directory where core dump files will be generated. By default, systemd stores core dump files in ``/var/lib/systemd/coredump/``.

Author: during the development of the text it is intended to ensure the deletion of any existing coredump, but at this point it seems irrelevant.
it will be eliminated

    .. code-block:: console

        cat /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern

    .. code-block:: none                                                                                                                                                                                            
        :class: output                            

        │|/lib/systemd/systemd-coredump %P %u %g %s %t                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

> #. **Enable Core Dump Collection**:
>     Enable core dump collection by setting the ``Storage=`` option in the systemd ``coredump.conf`` file. You can set it to ``external`` to store core dumps externally, or ``none`` to disable core dump collection altogether.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Edit the Systemd ``/etc/systemd/coredump.conf`` file.
```

    .. code-block:: console

        systemctl edit systemd-coredump

>     Add the following lines to the editor that opens:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Add the following lines in the editor that opens to enable core dump collection and store core dumps externally. To disable core dump generation, set ``Storage=none``.
```

Author: this task description is parto of point `Enable Core Dump Collection`

Reviewer: Which I suggested to remove.

    .. code-block:: console

        [Coredump]
        Storage=external

> #. **Set Core Dump Size Limit (Optional)**:
>     You can optionally set the maximum size of core dump files by adding the ``ProcessSizeMax=`` option in the ``coredump.conf`` file. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **Recommended** – Set a size limit for core dump files. For example, 2 GB.
```

    .. code-block:: console

        ProcessSizeMax=2G

> #. **Restart systemd-coredump Service**:
>     After making changes to the configuration, restart the systemd-coredump service for the changes to take effect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Restart the ``systemd-coredump`` service to apply the changes.
```

    .. code-block:: console

        systemctl restart systemd-coredump

> By following these steps, you can set up core dump generation using systemd. This allows for centralized management and configuration of core dumps across your system.
> 
> To disable core dump generation, you can modify the configuration of the systemd-coredump service. Here's how you can do it:
> 
> #. **Edit systemd-coredump Configuration**:
>     Open the systemd-coredump configuration file for editing:
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         systemctl edit systemd-coredump
> 
> #. **Add Configuration to Disable Core Dumps**:
>     Add the following lines to the editor that opens:
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         [Coredump]
>         Storage=none
> 
>     This configuration sets the ``Storage`` option to ``none``, effectively disabling core dump storage.
> 
> #. **Restart systemd-coredump Service**:
>     After making changes to the configuration, restart the systemd-coredump service for the changes to take effect:
> 
>     .. code-block:: console
> 
>         systemctl restart systemd-coredump
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Doesn't seem necessary to me. Suggesting to remove these lines...

> #. **Verify Configuration**:
>     Check the status of the systemd-coredump service to ensure it is running without errors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Check the status of the systemd-coredump service to ensure it is running without errors.
```

    .. code-block:: console

        systemctl status systemd-coredump

> Once you've completed these steps, core dump generation will be disabled on your system. Any attempts to generate core dumps will not result in files being stored.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. Copyright (C) 2024, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::

>   :description: This section contains instructions to configure and collect coredumps for furture analisys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :description: This section contains instructions to configure and collect core dumps for analysis.
```

> .. _coredumps:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> HowTo configure Wazuh agent's OS to generate `coredumps`
> ========================================================
> This section contains instructions to customize the diferent OS where Wazuh agent is installed.
> 
> Introduction
> ------------
> A **core dump** a.k.a **crash-dump** is a snapshot of the memory of a running process. The S.O. where the Wazuh agent resides, can automatically create a core dump when a serious or unhandled error occurs. Sometimes a crash dump is useful for diagnosing a process that appears to be hanging; The memory dump may reveal information about the cause of the crash.
> When collecting a core dump, be sure to collect other information about the environment so that the core file can be analyzed (for example, the agent and OS version along with any other data you consider appropriate).
> 
> Linux agent's OS
> ----------------
> Since Linux version 2.41 onwards, a template is implemented to define the location and name of the coredumps that are generated in the system, here the reference_.
> Unlike the previous versions, which, if enabled, generated the core file next to the location of the file that caused the error.
> 
> .. _reference: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/core.5.html
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring core dump generation
================================

A *core dump* or *crash dump* is a snapshot of a process's memory taken when a serious or unhandled error occurs. The operating system on a monitored endpoint can automatically generate core dumps. These dumps are valuable for diagnosing hanging processes. Alongside environment information such as the operating system version, they can offer insights into the cause of a crash.

Linux endpoints
---------------

In Linux version 2.41 and later, a template defines the location and name of the generated `core dump files <https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/core.5.html>`__. Earlier versions generated the core dump files next to the location of the file that caused the error.

```

> Using `ulimit`, without `systemd`
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manual configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

Reviewer: What about bringing the "Using systemd" sub-section up before this section? Isn't the "using systemd" the usual first recommendation to handle this configuration? Maybe we could introduce it first and then the manual ulimit way.

Setting up core dump generation without using systemd involves configuring the operating system's core dump settings manually. Here's how you can do it on Linux systems:

> 1. **Identify the Target Directory for Core Dumps**:

Reviewer: Please use `#. ` for auto-numbering. Use three spaces indentation. For example:

```
#. Restart the Wazuh manager service to apply the changes:

   .. code-block:: console

      # systemctl restart wazuh-manager
```

Author: done

2. **Disable Core Dump Generation**:
    To disable core dump generation, set the core dump size limit to zero using the ``ulimit`` command:

.. code-block:: console

    ulimit -c 0
..

3. **Optional: Configure Core Dump Storage Location**:
    If core dumps were previously being stored, you may want to configure the ``core_pattern`` sysctl parameter to prevent any future core dumps from being generated. For example, you can set it to ``/dev/null`` to discard core dumps:

.. code-block:: console

    echo "/dev/null" > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern
..

4. **Restart Processes if Necessary**:
If you've changed the ``core_pattern`` parameter, consider restarting relevant processes to ensure that the changes take effect.

By following these steps, you can disable core dump generation without relying on systemd. This approach directly modifies system-wide settings to prevent core dumps from being generated.

Using `systemd`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To set up core dump generation using systemd, you can utilize systemd's built-in features for managing core dumps. Here's a step-by-step guide:

> 1. **Check Core Dump Configuration**:

Reviewer: Check what? What to look for? Can we include an output example?

Author: done

    First, verify the current core dump configuration using the ``coredumpctl`` command:

.. code-block:: console

    coredumpctl status
..

> 2. **Identify Target Directory for Core Dumps**:

Reviewer: What next? Where to set the chosen custom location?

Author: done
